Palestinians are experiencing a Ramadan
like no other the Muslim month of
fasting is being observed in the face of
famine Israel is restricting what food
medicine and life-saving supplies can
get into Gaza a small amount of Aid was
dropped by Parachute into the north
where Israel's blockade is at its worst
but it's nowhere near enough to meet the
needs of people there the number of
Palestinians who have died as a result
of malnutrition and dehydration has
risen to 25 instead of spending time
together with family in their homes
Palestinians who have already been
displaced multiple times are under
constant attack explosions occurred in
the southern city of Rafa shortly after
Dawn while 16 people were killed when a
home was bombed in Gaza City and in
occupied East Jerusalem Israeli forces
blocked the entrance to the Alamos
compound some Palestinian worshippers
were beaten as they tried to enter NAD
Abu sharak joins us you're an Imam sir
and you're with us live from Rafa also
in the southern part of the the Gaza
Strip I wonder what do you say to
worshippers at a time like this under
these exceptional
circumstances in the name of Allah the
omnipotent the merciful Gaza is
receiving Ramadan while the entire
population is
cloaked in Blackness we address
Muslims in every corner of the world how
can you accept to see the Gaz and
suffering in this holy month the month
of religious
observances where Muslims observe
fasting and other rituals we send out a
cry an outcry to the Arab and Muslim
population worldwide through Al jaaz can
you accept this here in Gaza
people are forsaken are left with
nothing with no portable water our
fellow gazin in the north have been
besieged they are starving to death they
are even forced to eat animals F Ramadan
the holy month of Virtues rituals
Humanity religious
observances while Muslims dedicate their
time day and night for prayers and
supplications instead gazans are left to
fight for their life to just to survive
as the Israelis continues with with
their barbaric attacks they have
outperformed the German Nazis it is a
state terrorism Israeli State terrorism
they have
outperformed all other types of form of
terrorism
they are wreaking destruction and
killing slaughtering our people women
and children innocent even babies they
are left without milk or the least basic
necessities any person of Gaza is reing
under ruthless
bombardment
Shilling and starvation there is not a
single house that is not mourning the
loss of a loved ones and above all that
we are starving to
death
instead this is the message we are
sending out to the people of the
world Gaza and the gazans are receiving
Ramadan the holy month with grief
sadness
starvation and blood the whole world has
forsaken us imagine if
please stop this Cascade of blood sir so
many mosques across the Gaza Strip have
been either uh damaged or entirely
destroyed as we have documented since
the beginning of this conflict where do
worshippers
pray
in this holy month of Ramadan
worshippers in every Muslim country
flock to mosques to perform prayers
supplications and offer other rituals on
every year we used to offer prayers
including
at evening and all night long prayers as
you documented the Israeli occupation
forces have destroyed not only our homes
but only the houses of God mosques
90% of all mosques in Gaza have been
totally destroyed others are partly
damaged that's why we shephers are left
with nothing but to offer prayers on the
streets on the ruins of their own
mosques yesterday for example in Rafa we
offered Al prayers on the road we laid
down our m s praying
M or a piece of cloth to
offer worshiping and off perform prayers
this is the case and this is the
situation this is repeated in all and
every other destroyed most all over
G this is what has become of Gaz and
Muslims pray laying on the ruins of
their own mosques on the
streets however they are adamant to
continue with their prayers they are
adamant to continue to and
maintain observing their religious
rituals our resolve cannot be dented
although the whole world has forsaken us
I wish we had been ukrainians the whole
world had moved heaven and
for the sake of ukrainians Simply for
being a people of fair complexion yet we
gazin Muslims are abandoned failed
forsaken by the entire world now
humanity is at trial but we were have
been forsaken more than one I'd like to
jump in respectfully um Ramadan as we
know sir
is
a Ramadan is a time for religious
reflection uh normally ordinarily what
can people in Gaza reflect on when they
are as we know starving displaced not to
mention in constant danger of being
bombed this is a very good question they
are praying offering supplications in
every single prayers raising their hands
and arms to God the almighty the
omnipotent asking and praying
supplicating asking for
victory against those who have been
wreaking killing destruction and Siege
they are supplicating to God the
almighty for Swift victory
and then they are praying to God
Almighty to provide them with the basic
necessities of life imagine at least
portable water clean drinking water
which is totally absent in Gaza flour
and bread is totally absent in Gaza
namely in the north they have been
supplicating to God Almighty to provide
them with patience fortitude support
they are also praying for the border
crossings to be opened and this world to
come to an end delivery Aid be
delivered normally without condition
this is the month of Virtues Of goodness
however we are left without the basic
necessities of life receiving month with
Hunger stress first yet with fortitude
and patience simply because we have firm
conviction in God and firm faith in
Allah NAD abush sharak an Imam in Rafa
in southern Gaza thank you very much for
joining us on the program this
hour